# Computing a bound for selection bias

This tool allows you to plug in values that describe various relationships between your variables of interest in order to assess the possible extent of selection bias. This bias is expressed as the difference between $\text{RR}_{obs}$, $\text{RD}_{obs}$, or $\text{OR}_{obs}$ (the measured observed in the selected population) and $\text{RR}_{true}$, $\text{RD}_{true}$, or $\text{OR}_{true}$ (the true causal effect).

The relationships that are necessary to compute the bound depend on the assumptions you are willing to make. More detail about the extra, optional assumptions are described can be found by clicking the <a href="#" data-toggle="modal" data-target="#modal_assumptions_B"> <i class="fa fa-info-circle"></i></a> icon. Similarly, a description of the parameters describing the relationships can be found next to each one. Each of the parameters is on the ratio scale. To calculate a bound for a risk difference, incidence within each exposure category (as estimated from your study) must also be given.

For example, you might hypothesize that an unmeasured factor could increase the risk of the outcome 2-fold in both the exposed and unexposed ($\text{RR}_{UY\mid (A = 0)} = \text{RR}_{UY\mid (A = 1)} = 2$) among some stratum of the confounders you already adjusted for. On the other hand, anywhere between 2 and 5 may be a plausible range of values describing the factor by which some unmeasured characteristic is more prevalent among the selected and exposed group than the selected, non-exposed group ($2 \leq \text{RR}_{SU\mid (A = 1)} \leq 5$). You can plug in any number of values representing possible relationships (e.g., 2, 3, 4, 5) to explore the extent to which your estimate could be affected by selection bias.
